[OSDOCS-5249] TP - Failure domains for ShiftStack (#57526)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-configuration-parameters.adoc

Author: Split out concept module.

|A UUID as a string. For example, `fa806b2f-ac49-4bce-b9db-124bc64209bf`.
|====

[id="installation-configuration-parameters-additional-azure_{context}"]
== {rh-openstack} parameters for failure domains

:FeatureName: {rh-openstack} failure domains
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

Optional {rh-openstack} parameters for the failure domains feature are described in the following table:

.{rh-openstack} parameters for failure domains
[cols=".^2,.^3a,.^3a",options="header"]
|====
|Parameter|Description|Values

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.computeAvailabilityZone`
|
|

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.storageAvailabilityZone`
|
|

> |`platform.openstack.failuredomains.portTargets.networkID`
> |
> |
> 
> |`platform.openstack.failuredomains.portTargets.fixedIP`
> |
> |
> 
> |`platform.openstack.failuredomains.portTargets.tags`
> |
> |

Author: ```suggestion
|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.portTargets.network`
|
|

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.portTargets.network`
|
|
```

|A UUID as a string. For example, `fa806b2f-ac49-4bce-b9db-124bc64209bf`.
|====

[id="installation-configuration-parameters-failure-domains-osp_{context}"]
== {rh-openstack} parameters for failure domains

:FeatureName: {rh-openstack} failure domains
[IMPORTANT]
====
[subs="attributes+"]
{FeatureName} is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features
are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and
might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them
in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product
features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during
the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview/[Technology Preview Features Support Scope].
====
// Undefine {FeatureName} attribute, so that any mistakes are easily spotted
:!FeatureName:

> You can distribute the control plane across availability zones by using failure domains. 

Author: ```suggestion
{rh-openstack-first} deployments do not have a single implementation of failure domains. Instead, availability zones are defined individually for each service, such as the compute service, Nova; the networking service, Neutron; and the storage service, Cinder. 

Beginning with {product-title} 4.12, there is a unified definition of failure domains for {rh-openstack} deployments that covers all supported availability zone types. 

You can use failure domains to control Nova, Neutron, and Cinder configurations from a single place. 
```

@mdbooth

> To define failure domains, add items to the `platform.openstack.failuredomains` list that contain the following parameters:

Reviewer: I am not familiar with the documentation format. Is this paragraph in the context of machine-pools?

The absolute path to `failureDomains` is `controlPlane.platform.openstack.failureDomains`. The failure domains, in the current (TechPreview) implementation, are defined per-machinepool and do not apply cluster-wide (note that this may change before GA, which is targeted at OCP v4.14).

Author: It definitely is now. 🙃

Author: ```suggestion
To define failure domains for a machine pool, add items to the `controlPlane.platform.openstack.failureDomains` list that contains the following parameters:
```

.{rh-openstack} parameters for failure domains
[cols=".^2,.^3a,.^3a",options="header"]
|====
|Parameter|Description|Values

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.computeAvailabilityZone`
|An availability zone for the server. If not specified, the cluster default is used.
|The name of the availability zone. For example, `nova-1`.

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.storageAvailabilityZone`
|An availability zone for the root volume. If not specified, the cluster default is used.
|The name of the availability zone. For example, `cinder-1`.

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.portTargets.id`

> |The port target ID. To use failure domains, the value of this parameter must be `control-plane`. If not specified, the cluster default is used.

Author: ```suggestion
|A string that uniquely identifies a `portTarget` object within the context of a failure domain. If the value of this parameter is `control-plane`, the `portTarget` object is set as the first network for the machine. By default, the primary network of the cluster is selected.
```

> |`control-plane`

Author: ```suggestion
|An arbitrary string or `control-plane`.
```

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.portTargets.network`

> |The network ID of a network to use in place of the primary cluster network. This ID must be different for each control plane node. If not specified, the cluster default is used.

Reviewer: @maxwelldb Sorry for not being clear enough in the uptream docs; I am afraid I might have misled you at this point.

Let me try to explain how machine connections work, starting from scratch.
Note that "port" means "connection". A port is an OpenStack resource that defines a network connection, and maps to an interface in a Compute instance (VM). A single port can be defined by network, or by subnet(s), and a single port connects a machine to one or more subnets.

Each Machine gets several ports. Before failure domains (or when you don't pass any failure domain), each machine would get connected to:
* the default primary network (which is EITHER the one created by the Installer, OR it is `platform.machinesSubnet` if you pass one, in which case the Installer does not create one);
* PLUS all the networks in the machine-pool's `additionalNetworkIDs`

With failure domains, each machine gets:
* the default primary network (as defined above: either Installer-created OR `platform.machinesSubnet`) OR, if there is a `portTarget` with id `control-plane` in its own failure domain, the `portTarget` with id `control-plane`
* PLUS all the non-control-plane `portTargets` of its own failure domain;
* PLUS all the networks in the machine-pool's `additionalNetworkIDs`

I hope this helps. I it doesn't, then I need a meeting and optionally an English course :grimacing:

> |The network ID of a network to use in place of the primary cluster network. This ID must be different for each control plane node. If not specified, the cluster default is used.

Reviewer: Coming back to the `portTarget.network` definition: a single port corresponds to a network interface on the virtual machine. With `portTarget` we let the user describe, in a flexible way, what they want the network interface to connect to.

The user can define:
* **just a network**. In this case we ask OpenStack how many subnets exist in the network; if there is exacltly one, then we set the port to connect to that subnet. If there is zero or more than one, we throw errors.
* **just a subnet**. Easy. The port will connect to that subnet.
* **multiple subnets** (by passing several `fixedIPs`). The port will connect to all of them, assuming they exist in the same network. If they exist in different networks, we throw errors.
* **a network and one or more subnets**. We connect to all subnets or error if any of the subnets does not exist in the specified network.

> |The network ID of a network to use in place of the primary cluster network. This ID must be different for each control plane node. If not specified, the cluster default is used.

Reviewer 2: Actually you *must* define a network, even if you define a subnet, at least in the machine controller. It's possible to determine the network automatically from the subnet, but we don't do it in the machine controller, so to be consistent we shouldn't do it in the installer either.

Can we at least document that you must specify a network so we can point and be smug if/when we turn it into an error?

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview/[Technology Preview Features Support Scope].
====
// Undefine {FeatureName} attribute, so that any mistakes are easily spotted
:!FeatureName:

{rh-openstack-first} deployments do not have a single implementation of failure domains. Instead, availability zones are defined individually for each service, such as the compute service, Nova; the networking service, Neutron; and the storage service, Cinder. 

Beginning with {product-title} 4.12, there is a unified definition of failure domains for {rh-openstack} deployments that covers all supported availability zone types. You can use failure domains to control related aspects of Nova, Neutron, and Cinder configurations from a single place. 

In {rh-openstack}, a port describes a network connection and maps to an interface inside a compute machine. A port also:
* Is defined by a network or by one more or subnets
* Connects a machine to one or more subnets

Failure domains group the services of your deployment by using ports. If you use failure domains, each machine connects to:

> * The `portTarget` object with the ID `control-plane`.

Author: @pierreprinetti Just to confirm--which noun does "it" refer to in your comment?

> * The `portTarget` object with the ID `control-plane`.

Reviewer: each machine connects to the `portTarget` object with the ID `control-plane`, IF a `portTarget` object with the ID `control-plane` exists

> * The `portTarget` object with the ID `control-plane`.

Author: ```suggestion
* The `portTarget` object with the ID `control-plane`, as long as that object exists.
```

* All non-control-plane `portTarget` objects within its own failure domain.
* All networks in the machine pool's `additionalNetworkIDs` list.

To configure failure domains for a machine pool, edit availability zone and port target parameters under `controlPlane.platform.openstack.failureDomains`.

.{rh-openstack} parameters for failure domains
[cols=".^2,.^3a,.^3a",options="header"]
|====
|Parameter|Description|Values

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.computeAvailabilityZone`
|An availability zone for the server. If not specified, the cluster default is used.
|The name of the availability zone. For example, `nova-1`.

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.storageAvailabilityZone`
|An availability zone for the root volume. If not specified, the cluster default is used.
|The name of the availability zone. For example, `cinder-1`.

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.portTargets`

> |A list of `portTarget` objects, each of which contextualizes a port target within a single failure domain. Each object must include an `id` parameter that specifies a port target.

Reviewer: More like:

>A list of `portTarget` objects, each of which defines a network connection to attach to machines within a failure domain.

Author: ```suggestion
|A list of `portTarget` objects,  each of which defines a network connection to attach to machines within a failure domain.
```

> |A list of `portTarget` objects, each of which contextualizes a port target within a single failure domain. Each object must include an `id` parameter that specifies a port target. Optionally, you can include other parameters.

Reviewer: Below, you changed "network" to be a required field (note that this is not currently enforced, but it should and will). As a consequence, maybe we should remove "Optionally, you can include other parameters"?

Author: ```suggestion
|A list of `portTarget` objects, each of which contextualizes a port target within a single failure domain. Each object must include an `id` parameter that specifies a port target.
```

|A list of `portTarget` objects.

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.portTargets.portTarget.id`

> |The ID of an individual port target. Set the value of this parameter to `control-plane` to select that port target as the first network for machines. If this parameter is not set, the cluster default network is used.

Reviewer: "if this parameter is not set..." <- the "id" parameter is mandatory. If it is set to `control-plane`, then the network is used in place of the default cluster network. (If it is anything else, it is ignored... other meaningful IDs were intended for future use).

Author: ```suggestion
|The ID of an individual port target. Set the value of this parameter to `control-plane` to select that port target as the first network for machines. If this parameter has a different value, it is ignored.
```

|`control-plane` or an arbitrary string.

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.portTargets.portTarget.network`

> |Required. The name or ID of a network to use in place of the primary cluster network.

Reviewer: More like:

> The name or ID of the network to attach to machines in the failure domain.

It is only the primary cluster network IF the `id` is set to `control-plane`.

Author: ```suggestion
|Required. The name or ID of the network to attach to machines in the failure domain.
```

> |A `network` object that contains either a name or UUID. For example, `8db6a48e-375b-4caa-b20b-5b9a7218bfe6`.

Reviewer: It's a structured object. The example would be:

```yaml
network:
  id: 8db6a48e-375b-4caa-b20b-5b9a7218bfe6
```

or

```yaml
network:
  name: my-network-1
```

> |A network object that contains a name or UUID. For example, `8db6a48e-375b-4caa-b20b-5b9a7218bfe6`.

Reviewer: `network` is an object that must contain one of `name` or `id`.

Example with `name`:
```yaml
failureDomains:
- portTargets:
  - id: one
    network:
      id: 8db6a48e-375b-4caa-b20b-5b9a7218bfe6
```

Example with `name`:
```yaml
failureDomains:
- portTargets:
  - id: two
    network:
      name: my-network-2
```

Consistently with the `fixedIPs` docs below, this should be "a \`network\` object"

Author: ```suggestion
|A `network` object that contains either a name or UUID. For example, `8db6a48e-375b-4caa-b20b-5b9a7218bfe6`.
````

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.portTargets.portTarget.fixedIPs`

> |Subnets to allocate fixed IP addresses to. These subnets must within the same network as the port.

Reviewer: missing verb. "These subnets must _exist_ within..."?

Author: ```suggestion
|Subnets to allocate fixed IP addresses to. These subnets must exist within the same network as the port.
```

> |Subnets to to allocate fixed IP addresses to. These subnets must within the same network as the port.

Reviewer: be? exist? It sounds like a verb is missing here

Author: ```suggestion
|Subnets to allocate fixed IP addresses to. These subnets must within the same network as the port.
```

Reviewer: >These subnets must within the same network as the port.

Something is still off

Author: Must've missed that, somehow. TY.

Author: @pierreprinetti Actually, I think you're just commenting on an outdated file. 

See most recent commit: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/57526/commits/57e662dbf995d127e57e8ccd11e2611547f040c8

|A list of `subnet` objects.
|====

> NOTE: You cannot combine availability zones and failure domains. If you want to use failure domains, compute and storage availability zones must be left unset. 

Reviewer: This sounds weird, because `computeAvailabilityZone` and `storageAvailabilityZone` are fields of the `failureDomain` object. Consider replacing with something like:

> You cannot combine `zone` fields and failure domains. If you want to use failure domains, `controlPlane.zone` and `controlPlane.rootVolume.zone` must be left unset.

Author: ```suggestion
NOTE: You cannot combine zone fields and failure domains. If you want to use failure domains, the `controlPlane.zone` and `controlPlane.rootVolume.zone` fields must be left unset.
```

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview/[Technology Preview Features Support Scope].
====
// Undefine {FeatureName} attribute, so that any mistakes are easily spotted
:!FeatureName:

{rh-openstack-first} deployments do not have a single implementation of failure domains. Instead, availability zones are defined individually for each service, such as the compute service, Nova; the networking service, Neutron; and the storage service, Cinder. 

Beginning with {product-title} 4.13, there is a unified definition of failure domains for {rh-openstack} deployments that covers all supported availability zone types. You can use failure domains to control related aspects of Nova, Neutron, and Cinder configurations from a single place. 

In {rh-openstack}, a port describes a network connection and maps to an interface inside a compute machine. A port also:
* Is defined by a network or by one more or subnets
* Connects a machine to one or more subnets

Failure domains group the services of your deployment by using ports. If you use failure domains, each machine connects to:

> * The `portTarget` object with the ID `control-plane`, as long as that object exists.

Reviewer 3: IBM SG: Do not use "as long as". Use "while" instead.

Author: ```suggestion
* The `portTarget` object with the ID `control-plane` while that object exists.
```

* All non-control-plane `portTarget` objects within its own failure domain.
* All networks in the machine pool's `additionalNetworkIDs` list.

To configure failure domains for a machine pool, edit availability zone and port target parameters under `controlPlane.platform.openstack.failureDomains`.

.{rh-openstack} parameters for failure domains
[cols=".^2,.^3a,.^3a",options="header"]
|====
|Parameter|Description|Values

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.computeAvailabilityZone`
|An availability zone for the server. If not specified, the cluster default is used.
|The name of the availability zone. For example, `nova-1`.

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.storageAvailabilityZone`
|An availability zone for the root volume. If not specified, the cluster default is used.
|The name of the availability zone. For example, `cinder-1`.

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.portTargets`
|A list of `portTarget` objects,  each of which defines a network connection to attach to machines within a failure domain.
|A list of `portTarget` objects.

|`platform.openstack.failuredomains.portTargets.portTarget.id`

> |The ID of an individual port target. Set the value of this parameter to `control-plane` to select that port target as the first network for machines. If this parameter has a different value, it is ignored.

Reviewer 3: Give the reason for doing something before giving the process, so...:"To select that port target as the first network for machines, set the value of this parameter to `control-plane`."

Author: ```suggestion
|The ID of an individual port target. To select that port target as the first network for machines, set the value of this parameter to `control-plane`. If this parameter has a different value, it is ignored.
```
